Add new documentation IP2Geo processor automatic updating feature (#4095)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/ingest-apis/ip2geo.md

---
layout: default
title: IP2geo processor
grand_parent: Ingest APIs
parent: Processors
nav_order: 10
---

# IP2geo processor 

> Introduced 2.8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduced 2.9
```

{: .label .label-purple }

The OpenSearch `IP2geo` processor adds information about the geographical location of an IPv4 or IPv6 address. The `IP2geo` processor uses GeoIP data from an external endpoint and therefore requires an additional component `datasource` that defines from where to download GeoIP data and how frequently to update the data.

## Installing the IP2geo processor

To use the `IP2geo` processor, the `opensearch-geospatial` plugin must be installed first. Learn more in the [Installing plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) documentation.

## Creating the IP2geo processor

> OpenSearch provides three endpoints for GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2 ASN GeoIP2 databases from [MaxMind](http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/), shared under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch provides three endpoints for GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2 ASN databases from [MaxMind](http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/), shared under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license.
```

      "next_update_at_in_epoch_millis": 1685125612373,
      "database": {
        "provider": "maxmind",
        "sha256_hash": "0SmTZgtTRjWa5lXR+XFCqrZcT495jL5XUcJlpMj0uEA=",
        "updated_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684429230000,
        "valid_for_in_days": 30,
        "fields": [
          "country_iso_code",
          "country_name",
          "continent_name",
          "region_iso_code",
          "region_name",
          "city_name",
          "time_zone",
          "location"
        ]
      },
      "update_stats": {
        "last_succeeded_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684866730192,
        "last_processing_time_in_millis": 317640,
        "last_failed_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684866730492,
        "last_skipped_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684866730292
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Updating IP2geo datasource

Update IP2geo datasource. The GeoIP data from the new endpoint should contain all fields in GeoIP data from the current endpoint for the update to succeed.

#### Example: Request

```json
{
    "endpoint": https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json,
    "update_interval_in_days": 10
}
```

#### Example: Response

```json
{
    "acknowledged":true
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Add Deleting IP2geo datasource here

## Deleting IP2geo datasource
Delete GeoIP datasource. Note that if you have processors that use the datasource, the delete requests will fail. To delete the datasource, you must delete all processors associated with the datasource first. 

#### Example: DELETE request
```json
DELETE /_plugins/geospatial/ip2geo/datasource/my-datasource
```

#### Example: response
```json
{
  "acknowledged": true
}
```

## Creating the IP2geo processor

#### Example: Request

```json
{
   "description":"convert ip to geo",
   "processors":[
    {
        "ip2geo":{
            "field":"ip",
            "datasource":"my-datasource"
        }
    }
   ] 
}

#### Example: Response

```json
{
	"acknowledged": true
}
```

## Using the IP2geo processor in a pipeline

The following table describes `ip2geo` options

| Name | Required | Default | Description |
|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| field | yes | - | The field to get the ip address from for the geographical lookup. |

> | target_field | no | ip2geo | The field that will hold the geographical information looked up from the Maxmind database. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| target_field | no | ip2geo | The field that will hold the geographical information looked up from the datasource |
```
The data can be from other places not just from Maxmind.

> | database | no | geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json | The database filename referring to a database the module ships with or a custom database in the ingest-geoip config directory. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| datasource | yes | - | The datasource name to look up geographical information |
```

Reviewer: Suggestion means, replace the line with suggested one. I can still see "database" which should not be there.

> | properties | no |  Default field depends on what is available in `database`. | Controls what properties are added to the target_field based on the geoip lookup. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| properties | no |  All fields in the datasource | Controls what properties are added to the target_field from the datasource |
```

| ignore_missing | no | false | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document. |
| first_only | no | true | If `true` only first found geoip data will be returned, even if field contains array. |

> 

Reviewer: Add  below contents here

--
The following code is an example of using IP2geo processor to adds the geographical information to the `ip2geo` field based on `ip` field.

```
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/ip2geo
{
   "description":"convert ip to geo",
   "processors":[
    {
        "ip2geo":{
            "field":"ip",
            "datasource":"my-datasource"
        }
    }
   ] 
}

PUT /my-index/_doc/my-id?pipeline=ip2geo
{
  "ip": "172.0.0.1"
}

GET /my-index/_doc/my-id
```
Which returns:
```
{
   "_index":"my-index",
   "_id":"my-id",
   "_version":1,
   "_seq_no":0,
   "_primary_term":1,
   "found":true,
   "_source":{
      "my_ip_field":"172.0.0.1",
      "ip2geo":{
         "continent_name":"North America",
         "region_iso_code":"AL",
         "city_name":"Calera",
         "country_iso_code":"US",
         "country_name":"United States",
         "region_name":"Alabama",
         "location":"33.1063,-86.7583",
         "time_zone":"America/Chicago"
      }
   }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Add below contents here

--
### Node Settings
The IP2geo datasource and IP2geo processor has node settings

IP2Geo datasource:

* plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.endpoint
Default endpoint for create datasource API. Defaults to https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json
* plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.update_interval_in_days
Default update interval for create datasource API. Defaults to 3.
* plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.indexing_bulk_size
Max number of documents to ingest in [bulk request](https://opensearch.org/docs/1.2/opensearch/rest-api/document-apis/bulk/) during IP2geo datasource creation process. Defaults to 10,000.

IP2Geo processor:

* plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.max_bundle_size
Maximum number of searches to include in a [multi-search request](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/api-reference/multi-search/) when enriching documents. Defaults to 100.
* plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.max_concurrent_searches
Maximum number of concurrent [multi-search requests](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/api-reference/multi-search/) to run when enriching documents. The default depends on your node count and search thread pool size. Higher values can improve performance, but risk overloading the cluster.

> The following code is an example of using <example_name> and adds the geographical information to the `geoip` field based on the `ip` field.

Reviewer: Remove all contents from here to the end of file.

---
layout: default
title: IP2Geo
parent: Ingest processors 
grand_parent: Ingest APIs
nav_order: 130
---

# IP2Geo
Introduced 2.10
{: .label .label-purple }

The `ip2geo` processor adds information about the geographical location of an IPv4 or IPv6 address. The `ip2geo` processor uses IP geolocation (GeoIP) data from an external endpoint and therefore requires an additional component, `datasource`, that defines from where to download GeoIP data and how frequently to update the data.

> The `ip2geo` processor maintains the GeoIP data mapping in system indexes. The GeoIP mapping is retrieved from these indexes during data ingestion to perform the IP to geolocation conversion on the incoming data. For optimal performance, it is preferable to have a node with both ingest and data roles. This configuration avoids internode calls reducing latency. Also, as the `ip2geo` processor searches GeoIP mapping data from the indexes, search performance is impacted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ip2geo` processor maintains the GeoIP data mapping in system indexes. The GeoIP mapping is retrieved from these indexes during data ingestion to perform the IP-to-geolocation conversion on the incoming data. For optimal performance, it is preferable to have a node with both ingest and data roles. This configuration avoids internode calls, reducing latency. Also, as the `ip2geo` processor searches GeoIP mapping data from the indexes, search performance is impacted.
```

{: .note}

## Getting started

> To get started with using the `ip2geo` processor, the `opensearch-geospatial` plugin must be installed. See [Installing plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with the `ip2geo` processor, the `opensearch-geospatial` plugin must be installed. See [Installing plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) to learn more.
```

## Cluster settings

The IP2Geo data source and `ip2geo` processor node settings are listed in the following table.

| Key | Description | Default |
|--------------------|-------------|---------|

> | plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.endpoint | Default endpoint for creating the data source API. | Defaults to https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json. |

Reviewer 2: It looks like the terminating period shouldn't be part of the link.

| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.update_interval_in_days | Default update interval for creating the data source API. | Defaults to 3. |
| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.batch_size | Maximum number of documents to ingest in a bulk request during the IP2Geo data source creation process. | Defaults to 10,000. |

> | plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.cache_size | Maximum number of results that can be cached. There is only single cache used for all IP2Geo processors in each node | Defaults to 1,000. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.cache_size | Maximum number of results that can be cached. There is only one cache used for all IP2Geo processors in each node | Defaults to 1,000. |
```

|-------------------|-------------|---------|

## Creating the IP2Geo data source

> Before creating the pipeline that uses the `ip2geo` processor, create the IP2Geo data source. The data source defines the endpoint value to download GeoIP data and specifies the update interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before creating the pipeline that uses the `ip2geo` processor, create the IP2Geo data source. The data source defines the endpoint value that will download GeoIP data and specifies the update interval.
```

OpenSearch provides the following endpoints for GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2 ASN databases from [MaxMind](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite2-free-geolocation-data), which is shared under the [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license:

* GeoLite2 City: https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json
* GeoLite2 Country: https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-country/manifest.json
* GeoLite2 ASN: https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-asn/manifest.json

> If an OpenSearch cluster cannot update a data source from the endpoints in 30 days, the cluster does not add GeoIP data to the documents, instead it adds `"error":"ip2geo_data_expired"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an OpenSearch cluster cannot update a data source from the endpoints within 30 days, the cluster does not add GeoIP data to the documents and instead adds `"error":"ip2geo_data_expired"`.
```

### Data source options

The following table lists the data source options for the `ip2geo` processor.   

| Name | Required | Default | Description |
|------|----------|---------|-------------|

> | `endpoint` | Optional | https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json | The endpoint for downloading the GeoIP data. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `endpoint` | Optional | https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json | The endpoint that downloads the GeoIP data. |
```

The following example deletes the data source:

```json
DELETE /_plugins/geospatial/ip2geo/datasource/my-datasource
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Creating the pipeline

Once the data source is created, you can create the pipeline. The syntax for the `ip2geo` processor is:

```json 
{
  "ip2geo": {
    "field":"ip",
    "datasource":"my-datasource"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Configuration parameters

The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `ip2geo` processor.

| Name | Required | Default | Description |
|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `field` | Required | - | The field that contains the IP address for geographical lookup. |
| `datasource` | Required | - | The data source name to use to look up geographical information. |
| `properties` | Optional |  All fields in `datasource`. | The field that controls what properties are added to `target_field` from `datasource`. |
| `target_field` | Optional | ip2geo | The field that holds the geographical information looked up from the data source. |

> | `ignore_missing` | Optional | false | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document. |

Reviewer 2: The end of the description is a bit oddly worded. Do we just mean "the processor does not modify the document"?

Author: Revised to read: If set to `true`, the processor does not modify the document if the field does not exist or is `null`. Default is `false`.

## Using the processor

Follow these steps to use the processor in a pipeline.

> **Step 1: Create pipeline.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Step 1: Create a pipeline.**
```

   "processors":[
    {
        "ip2geo":{
            "field":"ip",
            "datasource":"my-datasource"
        }
    }
   ] 
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Step 2: Ingest a document into the index.**

The following query ingests a document into the index named `my-index`:

```json
PUT /my-index/_doc/my-id?pipeline=ip2geo
{
  "ip": "172.0.0.1"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Step 3: View the ingested document.** 

To view the ingested document, run the following query:

```json
GET /my-index/_doc/my-id
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Step 4: Test the pipeline.** 

To test the pipeline, run the following query:

```json
POST _ingest/pipeline/my-id/_simulate
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "_index":"my-index",
      "_id":"my-id",
      "_source":{
        "my_ip_field":"172.0.0.1",
        "ip2geo":{
         "continent_name":"North America",
         "region_iso_code":"AL",
         "city_name":"Calera",
         "country_iso_code":"US",
         "country_name":"United States",
         "region_name":"Alabama",
         "location":"33.1063,-86.7583",
         "time_zone":"America/Chicago"
         }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> You'll get the following response, which confirms the pipeline is working correctly and producing the expected output: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll receive the following response, which confirms that the pipeline is working correctly and producing the expected output: 
```

---
layout: default
title: IP2Geo
parent: Ingest processors 
grand_parent: Ingest APIs
nav_order: 130
---

# IP2Geo
Introduced 2.9
{: .label .label-purple }

The `ip2geo` processor adds information about the geographical location of an IPv4 or IPv6 address. The `ip2geo` processor uses IP geolocation (GeoIP) data from an external endpoint and therefore requires an additional component, `datasource`, that defines from where to download GeoIP data and how frequently to update the data.

> 

Author: Added to intro section.

The `ip2geo` processor maintains the GeoIP data mapping in system indexes. The GeoIP mapping is retrieved from these indexes during data ingestion to perform the IP to geolocation conversion on the incoming data. For optimal performance, it is preferable to have a node with both ingest and data roles. This configuration avoids internode calls reducing latency. Also, as the `ip2geo` processor searches GeoIP mapping data from the indexes, search performance is impacted.
{: .note}

## Getting started

To get started with using the `ip2geo` processor, the `opensearch-geospatial` plugin must be installed. Learn more at [Installing plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/).

## Creating the IP2Geo data source

Create the IP2Geo data source by defining the endpoint value to download GeoIP data and specify the update interval.

> OpenSearch provides the following endpoints for GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2 ASN databases from [MaxMind](http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/), shared under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license:

Reviewer: That is correct.

> OpenSearch provides the following endpoints for GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2 ASN databases from [MaxMind](http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/), shared under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license:

Author: Changes made.

* GeoLite2 City: https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json
* GeoLite2 Country: https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-country/manifest.json
* GeoLite2 ASN: https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-asn/manifest.json

If a OpenSearch cluster cannot update a data source from the endpoints in 30 days, the cluster does not add GeoIP data to the documents, instead it adds `"error":"ip2geo_data_expired"`.

The following table lists the IP2Geo data source options.

| Name | Required | Default | Description |
|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| endpoint | no | https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json | The endpoint for downloading the GeoIP data. |
| update_interval_in_days | no | 3 | The frequency in days for updating the GeoIP data; minimum value is 1. |

> The following code example shows how to create an IP2Geo data source.

Author: Revised.

#### Example: PUT request

```json
PUT /_plugins/geospatial/ip2geo/datasource/my-datasource
{
    "endpoint" : "https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json",
    "update_interval_in_days" : 3
}
```

> The following code example shows the reponse to the preceding request. A true response means the request was successful and the server was able to process the request. A false reponse means check the request to make sure it is valid, check the URL to make sure it is correct, or try again.

Author: Revised structure to follow same format as other processor sections.

#### Example: GET request

```json
GET /_plugins/geospatial/ip2geo/datasource/my-datasource
```

#### Example: Response

```json
{
  "datasources": [
    {
      "name": "my-datasource",
      "state": "AVAILABLE",
      "endpoint": "https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json",
      "update_interval_in_days": 3,
      "next_update_at_in_epoch_millis": 1685125612373,
      "database": {
        "provider": "maxmind",
        "sha256_hash": "0SmTZgtTRjWa5lXR+XFCqrZcT495jL5XUcJlpMj0uEA=",
        "updated_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684429230000,
        "valid_for_in_days": 30,
        "fields": [
          "country_iso_code",
          "country_name",
          "continent_name",
          "region_iso_code",
          "region_name",
          "city_name",
          "time_zone",
          "location"
        ]
      },
      "update_stats": {
        "last_succeeded_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684866730192,
        "last_processing_time_in_millis": 317640,
        "last_failed_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684866730492,
        "last_skipped_at_in_epoch_millis": 1684866730292
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Updating an IP2Geo data source

> To update succesfully an IP2Geo data source, the GeoIP database from the latest-released database's endpoint must contain the same fields as those in the currently used database. Otherwise, the update fails. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update an IP2Geo data source successfully, the GeoIP database from the new database's endpoint must contain all fields that the current database has. Otherwise, the update fails. 
```

#### Example: Update request

```json

> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PUT /_plugins/geospatial/ip2geo/datasource/my-datasource/_settings
{
```

    "endpoint": https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json,
    "update_interval_in_days": 10
}
```

#### Example: Response

```json
{
    "acknowledged":true
}
```

## Deleting the IP2Geo data source

>  To delete the IP2Geo data source, you first must delete all processors associated with the data source. Otherwise, if you have other processors that use the data source, the DELETE request fails. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 To delete the IP2Geo data source, you must delete all processors associated with the data source first. Otherwise, the DELETE request fails. 
```

#### Example: DELETE request

```json
DELETE /_plugins/geospatial/ip2geo/datasource/my-datasource
```

#### Example: Response

```json
{
  "acknowledged": true
}
```

## Creating the processor

Once the IP2Geo data source is created, you can create the `ip2geo` processor. 

#### Example: Create processor request

```json

> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/my-pipeline
{
```

> ## Creating the processor

Author: Revised

   "description":"convert ip to geo",
   "processors":[
    {
        "ip2geo":{
            "field":"ip",
            "datasource":"my-datasource"
        }
    }
   ] 
}
```

#### Example: Response

```json
{
	"acknowledged": true
}
```

## Creating the IP2Geo pipeline

The following table lists the `ip2geo` fields options for creating an IP2Geo pipeline.

| Name | Required | Default | Description |
|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| field | yes | - | The field to get the ip address for the geographical lookup. |
| datasource | yes | - | The data source name to look up geographical information. |
| properties | no |  All fields in `datasource`. | The field that controls what properties are added to `target_field` from `datasource`. |
| target_field | no | ip2geo | The field that holds the geographical information looked up from the data source. |

> | database | no | geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json | The database filename referring to a database the module ships with or a custom database in the ingest-geoip config directory. |

Reviewer: Please remove this.
```suggestion

```

| ignore_missing | no | false | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document. |

> | first_only | no | true | If `true` only first-found GeoIP data is added. This only applies when field contains multiple IPs in an array. |

Reviewer: Please remove this
```suggestion
```

The following code is an example of using the `ip2geo` processor to add the geographical information to the `ip2geo` field based on the `ip` field.

```json
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/ip2geo
{
   "description":"convert ip to geo",
   "processors":[
    {
        "ip2geo":{
            "field":"ip",
            "datasource":"my-datasource"
        }
    }
   ] 
}

PUT /my-index/_doc/my-id?pipeline=ip2geo
{
  "ip": "172.0.0.1"
}

GET /my-index/_doc/my-id
{
   "_index":"my-index",
   "_id":"my-id",
   "_version":1,
   "_seq_no":0,
   "_primary_term":1,
   "found":true,
   "_source":{
      "my_ip_field":"172.0.0.1",
      "ip2geo":{
         "continent_name":"North America",
         "region_iso_code":"AL",
         "city_name":"Calera",
         "country_iso_code":"US",
         "country_name":"United States",
         "region_name":"Alabama",
         "location":"33.1063,-86.7583",
         "time_zone":"America/Chicago"
      }
   }
}
```

> ## Node settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cluster settings
```

The IP2Geo data source and `ip2geo` processor node settings are listed in the following table.

> | IP2Geo data source | Description | Setting |

Reviewer: Would be better not to separate IP2Geo datasource setting and processor setting.
```suggestion
| Key | Description | Default |
```

|--------------------|-------------|---------|
| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.endpoint | Default endpoint for creating the data source API. | Defaults to https://geoip.maps.opensearch.org/v1/geolite2-city/manifest.json. |
| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.update_interval_in_days | Default update interval for creating the data source API. | Defaults to 3. |

> | plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.indexing_bulk_size | Maximum number of documents to ingest in a bulk request during the IP2Geo data source creation process. | Defaults to 10,000. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.datasource.batch_size | Maximum number of documents to ingest in a bulk request during the IP2Geo data source creation process. | Defaults to 10,000. |
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.cache_size | Maximum number of results that can be cached. There is only single cache used for all IP2Geo processors in each node | Defaults to 1,000. |
```

>  `ip2geo` processor | Description | Setting |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

|-------------------|-------------|---------|

> | plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.max_bundle_size | Maximum number of searches to include in a multi-search request when enriching documents. | Defaults to 100.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | plugins.geospatial.ip2geo.processor.max_concurrent_searches | Maximum number of concurrent multi-search requests to run when enriching documents. | The default depends on your node count and search thread pool size. Higher values can improve performance, but risk overloading the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
